Alright! In this video, we are going to
look at creating a new category with a
POST action against our API. And in doing
this, we wanna do it all reactively. So,
there's a couple of different ways to
skin those cat. I'm gonna show you a
very specific way that will take
reactive streams to handle this.
So, let's go ahead and setup the method,
then, we'll decorate it for the WebFlux
annotations. So, the first thing we wanna do is we are going to return back a
Mono. So, remember, in a create action,
we're not going to turn it back any type
of body, but we do want to return back a
return status of 201, saying that the
resource was created.
And in this case, we are going to take in
a Publisher.
I'm gonna call the stream, just so we
remember that, this is going could be a
stream of one or more objects in this
case and let's go ahead. And remember,
Publisher is out of the reactive streams
API specification. So remember, both Monos
and Fluxes implement our implementations
of Publisher, so we're seeing any class
that implements a Publisher can be
passed into this method here. So, any
class implementing that, so Monos or Fluxes
could, in theory, come into this. So now,
we're gonna return back from the
categoryRepository. What we wanna do
is to saveAll. The save all takes in a
Publisher.
So, that's gonna be taking that stream.
they're just gonna say then, which turns
back a void. So, that sets up our
controller method. That's going to
take in a stream of Category, so this is
being done reactively so it could be one
or more. In our purposes, it's got just
gonna be one. But it'll take in a
stream of those, and then, save those to
MongoDB and it's gonna be doing that
all reactively. So, let's go ahead and
decorate this a little bit.
And we see, what we wanna do is take
the same API value. But now,
make sure I copied the right value there. So,
I'd probably externalize this into
property, but for here, this is good enough
for our learning purposes here. So, we're
using the same URL value, and mapping
GET is here and HTTP POST
this. So, let's go ahead and set up our
test now. And that, this is gonna have
an error, but I'm leaving that error
there on purpose because I wanna
demonstrate something to you.
Let's go ahead and set up our test now.
So, I'm saying your categoryRepository
saveAll any Publisher.ooooo..
In this case, I'm not going out
building up the properties of the
Category. So, we really don't need it at
this point.
But we do need to pass in a Category
into our class. So, what we want to do is
create a Mono here.
So, this sets up the Category that we
want to save. Now, what we want to do is
go ahead and invoke that API.
This time, we're doing a post action to
create it.
So, I still have that on my clipboard so
I just paste it in the URL value.
This time, we want to say the body is
going to be that catToSaveMono,
and the API wants the class to declare
it as well.
So, just run through what's going on here.
We're posting against the api/v1/
categories. We are that catToSaveMono
that we created. On line 60, we are passing
that object in to the body method, and
now, we're going to run the exchange, and
we are expecting a status of created. So,
let's go ahead and run that right now.
And we've got a 500 error. So
should not have seen that, as now there
are expecting.
So, I ran into a little bit of problem
here. And really, what's going on here,
looking at a little bit closer, I
realized what I did. So, I'm getting this
and this really doesn't make any sense.
But, what I forgot to do is annotate this
with the @RequestBody annotation.
So, I forgot to tell WebFlux to go ahead and
bind the body into it. So, it really didn't
know what to do with it, so I believe
that's it. So, let's go ahead and run this
now. So that
was a mapping error. And now, this is the
error that I was expecting. What's going on
here is we are getting back at 200 okay
and that's the default property. Now,
there's two different ways that we can
address this. One is to return back the
ResponseBody. But another, which I think
is a little bit cleaner, you'll see a lot
of it, if you've research this on the
internet, you're going to see everybody
return back ResponseBody. But what you
can do is a little bit cleaner, in my
opinion, is just come up here and
annotate it with ResponseStatus.
We want to do a create in here. So now,
we're not going to dirty that up, so let's
go ahead and run this again, and we
should get back at 201 status versus a
to 200 status. So now, we can see that
it's working. So, we didn't have to really
dirty things up and and start messing
with the ResponseBody, and we were able
to just return back simple reactive
types and keep our method fairly clean
there. So, I do like this approach over
other approaches that you will see
advertised on the internet. So, pretty
pretty simple here. So now, we do have a
successful creation method for
categories. And just to recap, what's
happening here, when the reactive type
comes in, so we're going to say, we wanted to
a create action, we are going to get a
publisher, which is going to be a stream
of categories, and we are going to return
that, and we are passing that into
categories using the saveAll function,
and using the then method to return back
the void. So, when this completes, it's
going to return back a Mono or void to
the calling Entity. And in this case, it's
going to be a web request, and we are
mapping post to it, and we are expecting
a body with a Category in it, and we were
going to return back a status of 201. And
just to recap our test, we are using the
BDD Mockito, and we're saying given. So,
given, when our CategoryRepository Mock,
we have to saveAll method and vote for
any Publisher, and we are going to return
back a Flux with just one object in it.
And here on line 60, we are creating the
Mono, that we are going to pass in to our
WebTestClient. So, we are going to come
down here. This is object that we are
creating to post against the WebTest
Client. So, we are doing a post action
against this URL. We are passing it in
the body. We are passing in
the catToSave, the category to save Mono,
and specifying the class running an
exchange, and we are expecting back 201
status. So, it is created. So, our test run
happy. Let's go ahead and verify
all our tests still run happily.
And assuming that I do, which they do. I
am going to commit this into GitHub for
your review.